
## Hardware Update 

We have continued to iterate on the hardware aspects of REFUSR since our last report. The most significant progress has been in moving the basic Refuduino over to a Teensyboard 4.1 MCU. This is a 32-bit ARM M7 processor with 1024K RAM, 8MB in Flash memory and 55 GPIO pins as well as an onboard TI DP83825 which provides a 100Mbit Ethernet interface. This has allowed us to import the Arduino MODBUS TCP library into the Refuduino code and provide LAN/WAN access to the Refuduino MCU as well at the current TTL-serial output. In previous versions of the Refuduino code, the seed bits for the Symbolic Expression run on the OpenPLC server were randomly generated from an PRN that ran in the main Refuduino loop() code. The MCU remains attached to the OpenPLC server via its GPIO cable. Effectively, this places two MODBUS Servers on either side of the GPIOs, neither aware of the other. A TCP port-scan from either the Pi running OpenPLC or another client on the same network would certainly turn up multiple MODBUS servers, but in a production industrial environment this might escape notice. We have been able to successfully replicate the "Numbers station" functionality on the MCU as a Python script on a remote host, have it inject those values into the MCU via PyModBus and have them be recognized by the OpenPLC dashboard. 
As MODBUS has program-defined registers that pin states can be stored into or written from, we now have a way to store-and-forward GPIO states between the Refuduino and external agents.  

This takes the MCU from a place of acting as a simple target device for the OpenPLC server into one where it can fully interact with other inspection, logging and analysis tools commonly used in other areas of InfoSec. We are interested in possible further development of this tool with others either inside or outside the ReMath effort who might find it useful. The idea of a sort of "PLC Pineapple" or "PLC Pirate" widget is certainly appealing. 


